---
layout: post
title: "ISSYP Application Essay (Accepted)"
description: "An example ISSYP Application Essay that was admitted"
tags: [ISSYP, ISSYP application essay, physics summer camp application essay,]
---

I genuinely enjoyed mathematics and physics ever since I was little. As I enjoyed both mathematics and physics so much, I was intrigued to see the role mathematics played in predicting natural phenomena in physics. Later, I grew fonder of theoretical physics when I found that mathematics is so useful in strengthening my understanding of different physical laws.

I never had any issues with the more fundamental physics courses in high school (such as uncertainties and general mechanics) since they require less conceptual understanding and more mathematical calculations. In contrast, I had difficulties grasping the abstract ideas for the more advanced topics in IB Higher Level Physics. Thankfully, many concepts that I found challenging to understand can be clearly explained by rearranging and combining equations of physics using algebra in mathematics, which significantly helped me to have a deeper conceptual understanding of physics. Interpreting and predicting the graphs modeled by physics equations using differential and integral calculus also aided my understanding, especially when it comes to calculating and understanding the relationships between the position, velocity, and acceleration of simple harmonic motions in wave phenomena. My knowledge of mathematics has given me a competitive edge in comprehending concepts in physics. I’m fascinated by theoretical physics since it is the attempt of using mathematics to describe, explain, and predict natural phenomena. It’s so captivating that we could see and even prove physical laws that govern the universe using mathematics without actually observing the phenomena using instrumentation. 

I decided to join ExploraVision with two of my friends upon hearing about this STEAM competition that’s concerned with proposing creative but feasible ideas about possible future technologies. This is the first time where I discovered the charm of theoretical physics. We often need to use concepts from physics while considering about the practicality of our projects, and at the root of these concepts, lies theoretical physics where we can use mathematical models to predict the behaviour of machines. During the process of researching about our project, I realized that much technological advancement in the human history is associated with or just directly based upon breakthroughs in theoretical physics. Hence, our group decided to create a project based on the possible paradigm shifts in theoretical physics in the upcoming years. It was a wonderful learning experience that deepened our understanding of how physics contributed to the innovations in the real world. I was compelled by how breakthroughs in theoretical physics provide foundations to technological advances in engineering that enrich the lives of humans, and this is another reason that I chose theoretical physics.

I would like to participate in this program to meet like-minded young people who are also passionate about theoretical physics. I believe that I’m qualified for attending ISSYP because of my interests and fascinations in theoretical physics. From attending ISSYP, I hope to see what real theoretical physicists are working on presently and have a richer understanding of this discipline since this is something that we high school students are rarely exposed to.
